WIP Autorag (#20865)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/autorag/configuration/system-prompt.mdx

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: System prompt
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

System prompts allow you to guide the behavior of the text-generation models used by AutoRAG at query time. AutoRAG supports system prompt configuration in two steps:

> - **Query Rewriting**: Reformulates the original user query to improve semantic retrieval. A system prompt can guide how the model interprets and rewrites the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Query rewriting**: Reformulates the original user query to improve semantic retrieval. A system prompt can guide how the model interprets and rewrites the query.
```

- **Generation**: Generates the final response from retrieved context. A system prompt can help define how the model should format, filter, or prioritize information when constructing the answer.

## What is a system prompt?

A system prompt is a special instruction sent to a large language model (LLM) that guides how it behaves during inference. The system prompt defines the model's role, context, or rules it should follow.

System prompts are particularly useful for:

- Enforcing specific response formats

> - Constraining behavior (e.g., only respond based on provided content)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Constraining behavior (for example, it only responds based on the provided content)
```

- Applying domain-specific tone or terminology
- Encouraging consistent, high-quality output

## Default system prompt

When configuring your AutoRAG instance, you can provide your own system prompts. If you don’t provide a system prompt, AutoRAG will use the **default system prompt** provided by Cloudflare.

You can view the effective system prompt used for any AutoRAG's model call through AI Gateway logs, where model inputs and outputs are recorded.

:::note

> The default system prompt can change and evolve over time to improve performance, and quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default system prompt can change and evolve over time to improve performance and quality.
```

- The generation system prompt

The model uses these inputs to generate a context-aware response.

### Example

```
You are a helpful AI assistant specialized in answering questions using retrieved documents.
Your task is to provide accurate, relevant answers based on the matched content provided.
For each query, you will receive:
User's question/query
A set of matched documents, each containing:
  - File name
  - File content

You should:
1. Analyze the relevance of matched documents
2. Synthesize information from multiple sources when applicable
3. Acknowledge if the available documents don't fully answer the query
4. Format the response in a way that maximizes readability, in Markdown format

Answer only with direct reply to the user question, be concise, omit everything which is not directly relevant, focus on answering the question directly and do not redirect the user to read the content.

If the available documents don't contain enough information to fully answer the query, explicitly state this and provide an answer based on what is available.

Important:
- Cite which document(s) you're drawing information from
- Present information in order of relevance

> - If documents contradict each other, note this and explain your reasoning for the chosen answer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If documents contradict each other, note this and explain your reasoning for the chosen answer
```

> - Do not repeat the instructions;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do not repeat the instructions
```
